# Analysis routine of the Individual Registry of Health Services Benefits (RIPS)

This routine aims to generate the grouping of health events for which people consulted during the years 2018 to 2022, to study the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic on health system care in the different departments of Colombia.

## Content
The repository contains the following:

- **Data Folder:** Contains the database provided by the National Ministry of Health, which includes variables such as medical diagnoses (ICD-10), medical procedures (CUPS), and patient characteristics like age, gender, and type of insurance.

- **Scripts Folder:** Contains preliminary analyses exploring different methods to group health events associated with medical consultations, as well as verifications of CUPS and ICD-10 codes. These steps include estimating an approximate prevalence using the Charlson Comorbidity Index (Quan et al. in 2005).

- **Functions Folder:** Contains the script for the main analysis routine, which includes data verification and cleaning, grouping health events from consultations, and statistical analysis to assess the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on these events. This folder also contains the ui.R and server.R files necessary to run the dashboard that visualizes the key characteristics of the medical consultations during the study period.

- **Output Folder:** Contains all outputs generated by the routine, including event groups, graphs, tables, and other resulting elements.

## Instructions

To run the application, use the following command:

```R
shiny::runApp("app")
```

## License
This repository is published under the [AGORA](htthttps://github.com/AGORA-COL/.githubp:// "AGORA ") project license (Alliance for the generation of evidence on Covid-19, its response and lessons learned for the post-pandemic and future epidemics)

### References
[Quan, H., Sundararajan, V., Halfon, P., Fong, A., Burnand, B., Luthi, J. C., Saunders, L. D., Beck, C. A., Feasby, T. E., & Ghali, W. A. (2005). Coding algorithms for defining comorbidities in ICD-9-CM and ICD-10 administrative data. Medical Care, 43(11), 1130–1139] (Quan, H., Sundararajan, V., Halfon, P., Fong, A., Burnand, B., Luthi, J. C., Saunders, L. D., Beck, C. A., Feasby, T. E., & Ghali, W. A. ​​(2005). Coding algorithms for defining comorbidities in ICD-9-CM and ICD-10 administrative data. Medical Care, 43(11), 1130–1139. https://doi.org/10.1097/01.MLR.0000182534.19832.83)
